I think here comes the Chancellor now
good evening
I'm joined here in Downing Street by
Professor Steve powers medical director
of NHS England let me begin tonight with
the latest figures four million and
forty three thousand six hundred and
eighty six tests have been carried out
in the UK including one hundred and
thirty one thousand four hundred and
fifty eight tests yesterday two hundred
and seventy one thousand two hundred and
twenty two people have tested positive
an increase of two thousand and ninety
five cases since yesterday sadly of
those who tested positive for
coronavirus across all settings thirty
eight thousand one hundred and sixty one
people have now died that's an increase
of 324 fatalities since yesterday our
thoughts as always are with the family
and friends of those who have lost their
lives today's figures confirm what the
Prime Minister has said we are past the
peak we're flattening the curve we
protected the NHS and the number of
deaths it's falling over the coming
weeks we can now take careful but
deliberate steps to reopen our economy
across the country office lights will be
turned on and windows thrown open
workloads in school uniforms will be
pulled out of the wardrobe shops and
factories will start to hum with
activity as we enter this new phase
things will change businesses will need
to become covert secure to protect staff
and customers we will all need to stay
alert as we go about our daily lives and
as Britain returns to work we need to
adapt the emergency programs we put in
place to bridge through the crisis
because of those programs and our
economic prospects are better than the
otherwise would have been we have
provided tens of billions of pounds of
tax cuts tax deferrals cash grants and
discounted loans for businesses income
protection for millions of the
self-employed
a strengthened safety net to protect
millions of our most vulnerable people
and our job retention scheme has now
supported more than a million jobs and
over a million businesses no British
government labor or conservative has
ever done anything like this I believe
it has made a real difference but as we
reopen the economy there is broad
consensus across the political and
economic spectrum the thorough scheme
cannot continue indefinitely two weeks
ago I outlined the principles of my
approach the furlough scheme will remain
open all the way until October we will
ask employers to start contributing as
we also introduce flexible furloughing
and employees will see no change to
their level of support as promised I can
provide more details today I believe it
is right in the final phase of this
eight-month scheme to ask employers to
contribute alongside the taxpayer
towards the wages of their staff but I
understand too that businesses and
employers have been through an
incredibly difficult time so I have
decided to ask employers to pay only a
modest contribution introduced slowly
over the coming months in June and July
the scheme will continue as before with
no employer contribution at all in
August the taxpayer contribution to
people's wages will stay at 80%
employers will only be asked to pay
national insurance and employer pension
contributions which for the average
claim account for just five percent of
total employment costs by September
employers will have had the opportunity
to make any necessary changes to their
workplaces and business practices only
then in the final two months of this
eight-month scheme will we ask employers
to start paying towards people's wages
in September taxpayers will pay 70% of
the furlough
and with employers contributing 10% in
October
taxpayers will pay 60% and employers
will contribute 20% then after eight
months of this extraordinary
intervention of the government's
stepping in to help pay people's wages
the scheme will close the biggest
request I've heard from businesses large
and small right across our country is to
have the flexibility to decide what is
right for them so to protect jobs and
help businesses decide how quickly to
bring their workforce back we are
introducing a new more flexible furlough
this is a critical part of our plan to
kick-start the economy the financial
security of the furlough scheme has been
a relief for many but at the same time
people want to work no one wants to be
at home on furlough no one wants to feel
unable to contribute so HMRC and the
Treasury have worked hard to put the
flexible furlough in place not from
August the first is originally planned
but from July the first one month early
from July the first employers will have
the maximum possible flexibility to
decide on the right arrangements for
them and their furloughed staff for
instance if you are watching at home and
on furlough your employer could bring
you back two days a week they would pay
you for those two days as normal
while the furlough scheme would continue
to cover you for the other three working
days to allow us to introduce this new
flexible furlough from July the first we
will need to close the old scheme to new
entrance on June the 30th employers
wanting to place new employees on the
scheme will need to do this by June the
10th to allow them time to complete the
minimum furlough period before then
alongside the furlough scheme for
employees our economic response has also
supported the self-employed 2.3 million
people have now applied for our Income
Support Scheme I know people have been
waiting
here whether the scheme will be extended
and I understand people have been
anxious I can confirm today the
self-employment income scheme will be
extended with applications opening in
August for a second and final grant the
final grant will work in the same way as
the first did paid out in a single
installment covering three months worth
of average monthly profits to maintain
the sense of fairness alongside the job
retention scheme the value of the final
grant will be 70 percent up to a total
of six thousand five hundred and seventy
pounds otherwise there will be no
changes and no further extensions to the
schemes which continue to be some of the
most generous in the world our economic
response to coronavirus was designed to
keep people in work protect people's
incomes and support businesses all to
give us the best chance of recovering
quickly as the economy reopens these
measures have been on a scale unmatched
by any government in recent history but
I do want to acknowledge that we haven't
been able to support everyone in the
exact way they would want I understand
some people have felt frustrated but you
were not and have not been forgotten
even if you don't qualify for the
furlough or self-employment schemes
we've provided a wide range of support
from discounted loans to tax cuts
mortgage holidays and enhanced welfare
now our thoughts our energies our
resources must turn to looking forward
to planning for the recovery and we will
need the dynamism of our whole economy
as we fight our way back to prosperity
not everything will look the same as
before it won't be the case that we can
simply put the key in the lock open the
door and step into the world as it was
in January we will develop new measures
to grow the economy to back business to
boost skills and to help people thrive
in the new post kovat world
today a new national collective effort
begins to reopen our country and
kickstart our economy thank you Steve
Thank You Chancellor and good afternoon
everybody
I'd like to take you through today's
data slides the first slide I've ever
provide some data on social distancing
on how our response has been to our
social distancing guidelines and this is
information coming from the Office for
National Statistics opinions and
lifestyle survey 21st to 24th of May and
that shows that 88% of adults have
avoided contact with older and
vulnerable people that 98 percent of
adults have said that they have tried to
stay at least 2 meters away for other
people when outside their home 29
percent of adults and are using a face
mask face covering sorry when outside
their home to slow the spread of kovat
19 and 39 percent of adults in
employment have been working from home
compared to around 12 percent last year
so again good evidence of compliance
with social distancing measures the next
slide takes us into testing and the
number of new cases and as you can see
in the top graph the number of tests
undertaken each day has been increasing
and that's increased very much during
April and into May and you can see that
that number continues to be at a level
above a hundred thousand on the bottom
graph you can see the new confirmed
cases that have come out of that testing
and you can again see that there is a
steady decline in those numbers
particularly noticeable on the seven-day
rolling average but as I think the chief
scientist said yesterday the Office for
National Statistics survey of random
householders individuals show that there
are indeed more cases than are coming
forward as part of this testing program
and now that tests and trace is in place
we anticipate that that gap might close
between those two figures next slide so
now we look at data from hospitals so
the first shows the estimated new daily
admissions
with Co vid 19 in England that's the top
graph and you can see that there has
been a steady decline in the number of
new daily admissions since the middle of
April and that decline is still there
perhaps slowing a little but we are
still seeing that decline in the bottom
graph you can see data concerning our
sickest patients fortunately those that
require treatment on our intensive care
units and require mechanical ventilation
and this is expressed as a percentage of
our total mechanical ventilator beds
occupied by Kovac 19 patients and you
can see that in all four countries that
again has been steadily declining since
April again showing the effect of social
distancing measures in our sickest
patients and that is a decline down 13
percent or from a week ago the 21st of
May the next slide shows more
information on hospitalization so this
is people in hospital overall people in
any bed with kovat 19 8000 207 people in
hospital down from 9000 397 last weeks
or a drop of over a thousand the graphs
show that on a regional basis you can
see throughout the UK and in devolved
administration's that there are steady
declines throughout again as I've said
before the most dramatic decline has
been in London which had the most
dramatic peak in the highest peak in
April in the next slide and the final
slide we move to deaths again the
saddest component of this data set again
you can see that the key measure here is
a 7-day rolling average which takes out
the variation that we see from day to
day and particularly the reporting
variation at weekends and you can see
the seven-day rolling average is
continuing to decline and the
Chancellor's bright provided information
on the deaths today 324 in all settings
that's confirmed with a positive test
thank you thanks Steve if we turn to
questions from the public we start with
will from Manchester
during lockdown there's been a drastic
fall in co2 emissions and many of the
changes to our lifestyles and sacrifices
we have made will help tackle climate
change what specifically are the
government doing to maintain these low
emission rates as lockdown is eased and
will these concerns be central to
rebuilding the economy
Thanks well that really important
question well what I'd say a couple of
things the most obvious and immediate
change that we've seen is how people are
getting around commuting seeing people
and using cycling and I think that is a
trend that hopefully will stick more
people have discovered cycling that is
something that we can all do good good
for the environment but also good for
our health and well-being
to your broader question about climate
change and tackling Net Zero being part
of our economic recovery absolutely in
in March which seems like a very long
time ago now we had a budget and in that
budget I talked a lot about our future
plans for investment and in growth and
mentioned a range of different
initiatives that we're going to take
forward over the next few years for this
agenda one of which is preserving our
natural capital and we have a new nature
for Climate Fund we'll be investing in
our environment I also talked about the
importance of something called carbon
capture and storage a technology would
take carbon from the air and sequester
it underground and we said that we will
invest several hundred million pounds
over the next few years in developing
that technology that could benefit
thousands of new jobs impetuses like the
Northeast and T side or Humberside
weather where the conditions exist to do
something like that and I believe we can
be a world leader
so absolutely right it's important now
in our change behavior we should keep
that but lots of exciting plans for the
future as well I don't know Steve if you
ever want to add anything well I will
add something because in the NHS we are
very much concerned around playing our
part to reduce emissions and to help
protect the environment and the long
term plan that we published over a year
ago really do focus on this - if I give
you one specific example one of the
that we wanted to achieve in that
long-term plan was to significantly
reduce the number of face-to-face
appointments in hospitals a lot of those
appointments can be managed remotely
digitally on the telephone by other
methods and in doing that we knew that
we would cut down the amount of NHS
related transport that people need to
use to get to those appointments and we
have estimated that up to five percent
of traffic during a normal week might be
NHS related so that would have a
significant impact and of course it
would protect some of the patients that
we have to see so our respiratory
patients are patients with chest disease
who of course can be affected by
pollution in the environment and I think
one of the things that we have seen
during the coronavirus crisis over the
last month is that we have moved very
rapidly to implement some of the changes
that we wanted to make so we have very
much increased the number of remote
digital telephone consultations both in
hospitals and in general practice and in
other aspects of community in primary
care and we really want to hold on to
that that was something we were going to
do anyway and so as we come out into
into the new world of managing Kovac
going forward we want to ensure that we
keep that approach as much as possible
to benefit patients to do things better
for patients more simply for patients
but also to protect the environment
brilliant thank you if we turn next to
simona from east born with a written
question simone is asking what is the
government doing to support women
returning to work from maternity leave
and who have no child care and can't be
furloughed simona thank you so there's a
range of measures that we've put in
place and the various schemes that we
have will benefit people in different
ways obviously the furlough scheme is
there we also for those for those who
are self-employed have the self-employed
income Support Scheme which is helping
many people as well beyond that for
those who may run their own business
we've provided tax carts and temporary
discounted loans to help bridge through
the crisis and of course crucially we
strengthened the safety net for those
who are most vulnerable in our society
with temporary increases to universal
credit to working tax credits
at local housing allowance to help with
rent payments alongside mortgage
holidays and providing councils with a
fund to help people pay their council
tax bills if they're facing difficulty I
think importantly though is that because
of the hard work of everyone and the
progress that we've made we are as a
Prime Minister announced able to start
reopening our primary schools from the
1st of June starting with our youngest
children those in the earliest years
settings and some of the first couple of
years of primary school and I think that
will help has allow more people to get
back to work as we can reopen our
schools and allow children to come back
to those settings as well great I think
if we turn to some questions from the
media
I think first up we've got Faisal Islam
from the BBC Faisal are you there I am
Chancellor thank you just in the first
instance it's your general message to
workers who work for companies without
the cash flow to pay even enough
insurance and Pensions contributions and
the self-employed after autumn that a
hundred billion is your limit and
unemployment will spike and then more
generally to dr. powers perhaps what is
happening with the assessment of the
joint biosecurity Center a lot was made
of this by the Prime Minister when it
was first announced that the lockdown
was to be loosened is it at 4:00 is it
3:00 is it between 4 and 3 and if it
hasn't gone down why are we loosening
things up thanks faisal so in terms of a
question about the employer contribution
and will employers be able to meet it
well I'd say a couple of things first of
all in aggregate this scheme is I think
very generous 8 months is a long time to
have the support if you look at the
total employer contribution over that
entire period on a typical employee
average employee on the scheme it will
amount to the employer making a 5%
contribution of the total employment
cost they would have otherwise to face
over those eight months they'll actually
only have to contribute 5% of that if
they were there for the entire time so I
do think that is reasonable and
affordable and that first month that you
talked about in August
because we're only in that month asking
employees to contribute National
Insurance and the auto enrollment
pension cost if we know from the numbers
that we have that are around 40% of all
employers currently don't pay those at
all because they don't quite call it
they're not eligible to have to pay them
so in the first month around 40% of
people won't be affected by that change
at all which gives all of those probably
smaller companies an extra month of
breathing room in terms of cash flow
which i think is a is a very fair
question we're very focused throughout
this entire crisis on making sure we
provide liquidity support to businesses
we have a range of loan products
available which have proved to be
successful 600,000 bounced back loans
have now been issued to small businesses
up and down the country and with the
furloughing schemes we've designed them
in a way that companies can apply in
advance of payroll so they receive the
grant from the government so that can
help them use that grant to pay their
payroll as well which was a big ask from
business and we were able to design the
schemes in a way that did that which
also will help with cash flow Steve you
want to take the other question yes
thank you fires also on the joint
biosecurity Center as you probably know
that is currently under development is
he setting itself up with advice from
various government departments I know it
is feeding its information even at this
early stage into the four chief medical
officers who have to think about alert
levels across the the countries in the
UK I think from the NHS point of view if
I can speak from the NHS point of view
as an international medical director one
of the key things that we need to ensure
is that we are linked into the joint
biosecurity Center so that any changes
in alert levels or any changes in early
warnings around the transmission of the
virus can be used by the NHS in
determining its planning going forward
so we need to be able to respond as we
did so magnificently in April to a surge
if we see a change in the amount of
infection the community the NHS needs to
be able to do that again so for us it's
really important that we link in to the
centre so that we have that dialogue and
understand when we might need to adapt
what we're doing for anything to follow
up on
can I can I check that 100 billion
number is that roughly what we're
looking at for the total cost of the two
schemes over 8 months and then again
just to dr. parris what has gone on with
the testing numbers for six days we
didn't have people tested numbers have
you sorted out whatever the problem was
there
I think Feisal in terms of the cost
estimate as you know the Office of
Budget Responsibility have provided a
range of estimates which I would point
you to and we published obviously a
weekly a calculator or weekly projection
of where we are in the scheme and the
total claims it's difficult now to say
what the aggregate cost over the entire
life will be because now that we've
introduced part-time furloughing for
there for the the last few months of the
scheme from July that will obviously
adjust people's working patterns bring
people back from furlough into work it's
difficult to predict precisely exactly
how that will work so I can't give you a
precise estimate but I would refer you
to the OB our numbers which I think you
referenced which are probably you know
the best estimate that we have at the
moment from anyone who's looked at this
in detail I can't give you a specific
answer on the testing number numbers but
testing is increasing all the time and
this week we have started adding in the
antibody tests the serology test that
tells you whether you have had the virus
rather than whether you've got it and
that is being rolled out now in
hospitals and healthcare facilities as
we speak brilliant thank you fine so if
we could turn next to Ed Conway from Sky
Edie yeah thank thanks don't slow it I
mean it feels like a big moment because
it's at the moment where you were
beginning to take the UK off this
extraordinary Support Scheme is it fair
to say this is in economic terms at
least is where the easy bit ends and the
tough bit begins so unemployment rises
potentially and so on and how tough a
period do the British people need to
prepare themselves for and if I could
just +1 other questions supplementary to
that I noted you're calling this the
flexible furlough scheme which kind of
raises a bit of a question in the event
that there is a second spike in the
virus involving some more lockdown
measures will you undertake to switch
the furlough scheme back on all once
it's over is it just over
thanks Edie I think after your first
question about difficulty I'd say that
many businesses already have been facing
an enormous amount of difficulty many
people have already been facing an
enormous amount of difficulty and you
asked about unemployment you know
despite this as the extraordinary and
significant intervention that we've put
in place I can't and we can't protect
every single job and every single
business I have aimed and tried to make
the scheme as generous as possible in
terms of its duration its flexibility
the contributions were asking to try and
protect as many of those jobs as
possible and indeed they play people
like the Office of Budget Responsibility
or Bank of England or indeed I think
today the Institute for government have
talked about the fact that the scheme
has achieved that aim and will mean that
we are in a better place than we
otherwise would have been but I agree
with you that there will be hardship
ahead for many and that that rests
heavily on my shoulders I I'm very
conscious of that and we are working
very hard and I work very hard to make
sure that all of those who do lose their
jobs as a result of what's happening
that I'm working as hard as I can to get
them back into work and good work as
quickly as possible with regard to the
scheme as they have this scheme as it
stands in a national way in the way that
it's designed will end in October but if
you look around the world at how long
people have put these in place for I
think that compares very favorably eight
months as I said is that I think a
generous and long period of time and
allows companies across the UK to to
slowly ramp back out and give them as
the best possible support that it can to
do that Steve anything I don't think
there were any other questions that you
want to anything else follow us I mean
it's sorry since it since I have a
chance I of course but because you
talked about planning for the recovery
and you know it's part of that you might
well need extra tack net tax measures
and stimulus measures to try to get the
economy going you talk about
kick-starting in the economy can you
just give any sense as to what that
might comprise and you know in what form
at least might we hear about it is there
going to be an emergency budget perhaps
as well I'm always asked about these
things you'll forgive me for giving the
same answer to all of the met which I
can't I can't and won't talk about
future budgets today but in terms of the
the format or timing
of that of something like that rather
than the content what I had said
previously is that when I was planning
to have an autumn budget to get us back
onto a cycle of autumn budget as you
well know we release the timing of
events like that in an in the normal
course of business and that's exactly
what we would do Thank You ed next Andy
Bell from channel 5 Andy hello yes hello
thank you very much the Chancellor um
Chancellor the government's always said
it's following the science on its
dealings with the coronavirus crisis but
down his Street this morning confirmed
that the alert level remains at four the
Prime Minister had said he was hoping it
was going to go down to three but it
remains at four we're told today and
under the government's own definition of
these levels it's only at three that you
can have the gradual relaxation of
restrictions but we're going ahead with
the relaxation of restrictions certainly
in England does that mean we're no
longer following the science we're
prepared to take decisions based on
other factors and dr. Paris how worried
are you that we're just being a little
bit too bit too risky about how we're
going forward with relaxing these
restrictions Andy in terms of moving
forward what we've always said is we set
out the five tests very clearly and
because we are now meeting the five
tests because of the you know heroic
efforts of everyone at home the NHS
everyone the you know we're in a
position to carefully and deliberately
start to release the restrictions you
know I wouldn't say that that's
happening in a reckless or bigbang way
as a prime minister's set out it's being
done in quite a measured and phased way
progressively to make sure that we can
keep an eye on things and we're not
running before we should so you know my
view is we've set the tests out we are
meeting the tests and therefore we're in
a position to do these these moves they
are progressive and measured moves we're
constantly keeping an eye on everything
and I think Steve would probably echo
that that there's been no change in the
dollar or the relationship we have or
the advice we receive we remain very
cognizant of the scientific advice very
engaged in it and and listening to it
very strongly yes well as you know the
important thing is to keep the
transmission rate that that our rate
below one because that
means that the number of infections is
declining over time rather than
increasing and of course we all want to
ensure that that remains the case and
the scientific advice to the government
will be how that can be done through a
through a range of different measures or
approaches but I think it's really
important going forward because we still
do have infections in the in the
community seven or eight thousand
according to the Office for National
Statistics as I said earlier it's really
important that we monitor infection
rates in the community very very closely
and if there is any hint or any sign
that the infection rates are going back
up that the our rate is going above one
the action is taken to ensure that our
goes below below one again and that will
be the scientific advice and I'm sure
the government would also want to take
account of that advice as well in
keeping our below one so that we can
avoid any second peak or any second
increase in the virus Andy yeah can I
just come back yeah it just sounds like
you know the prime minister was clearly
hoping we would be able to say we've
gone from four to three we haven't done
that and yet we've pressed ahead anyway
it doesn't look rather look like the
decision had been taken and whatever
with the advice coming you know we
pressed ahead regardless no I'm not sure
that's right I mean when we've made
these decisions we've always done them
in conjunction with the latest
scientific advice and Steve and his
colleagues are completely aware of
everything we're doing I think the other
thing that we Steve touched on which I
think is important and certainly it's
been important in the conversations I've
had with Sir Patrick or Chris witty
around our ability to now keep an eye on
things which because of the you know the
test track and trade system because of
our new surveillance operation and the
information we're gathering you know
that's something that has changed from
where we were previously we now have
stood up I think you know very
impressive effort and I pay tribute to
all the people involved in it this
ability to really track what is
happening measure what is happening
across the country and react quickly if
need be in a more targeted fashion I
don't know that's something that all of
the scientists were keen for us to put
in place and helps give them confidence
that we can move forward in this in this
way but we will be able to spot problems
and react quickly and in a targeted
fashion should the need arise
brilliant turning next to Anna Nicole
over from the Daily Telegraph Anna hi hi
counselor
many businesses have said they'll
struggle to stay afloat with a 2-meter
distancing rule in place in particular
in hospitality this week the Prime
Minister suggests that he would like to
see the Toomey's were all reduced would
you like to see it reduced why I agree
with the Prime Minister and I think what
he said was we would keep it under
review as we do all of the health
restrictions and measures that we've put
in place to help tackle the virus you
know of course like anything else we
talked about these things with our
scientific colleagues we understand the
risks are involved and if there are
reasons that are sound for adjusting
things as we go as we have progressively
made other changes to our restrictions
of course we'll consider that that we're
not there at this point and it's a prime
minister said we keep everything under
review Steve I don't know if you well I
think sebat rebalance the chief
scientific adviser gave a very good
description of some of the science and
some of the things around the 2 meter
rule yesterday it's not an absolute 2
meters is not absolute there's a
increasing amount of risk the more the
closer you are to an individual of
course the longer you are close to
somebody that's the basis for instance
for the contact tracing in in tests and
trace and there are a number of other
mitigations that can be taken around
that 2 meter rule I don't think the
scientific evidence has changed and the
scientific evidence will continue to be
presented to the government and of
course if new evidence comes becomes
available at any time of course that
must be taken into account but I don't
think the science has fundamentally
changed Anna anything else well just
circling back to your tax the tax
question earlier you said you don't want
to comment on future budgets which is
understandable but the Prime Minister
this week in answer to that question
reaffirmed that the he would maintain
the commitment to all Tory manifesto
pledges which include the triple tax log
will you also now reaffirm that you will
not get rid of that manifesto commitment
as always an aria I agree with the Prime
Minister and would go back to what I
said before I'm not going to write
future budgets today brilliant
James taps field next from the mail
online wage redundancy in the private
sector everyone wants to take the NHS
and frontline workers who protect us
through the crisis but is it really
going to be possible to shield the wider
public sector from the economic fallout
of the face and powers and do you think
there's any safe way to share a barbecue
or should we perhaps we'll be looking
more to picnics through the coming weeks
thanks James our public sector workers
have done an amazing job many of them on
the front line obviously in the NHS but
also in local councils up and down the
country helping us respond and now
school teachers will also be over the
last few weeks have been making changes
and getting ready to work in a new way
to welcome young children back to school
which is fantastic and they all deserve
our praise and thanks I think we were
asking if I understood rightly about
future pay and the situation for public
sector workers I mean many many people
in the public sector are in the middle
of multi-year pay deals for example
nurses for the agenda for change deal is
in in the midst of it and many of last
year you remember we had I think an
inflation busting pay rise for about a
million public sector workers there's a
process that that happens there are pay
review bodies that provide advice of the
government collect evidence and that
process will be underway as normal and
that would be the mechanism through
which those decisions are made later on
this year well I think if you're in a
garden private garden having a barbecue
whether you're in a park the fundamental
rules around safety remain which is the
2 meter rule is to stay distant from
each other at all times to maintain hand
hygiene to ensure your hands are clean
watching
frequently so I think it's those general
principles around safety and reducing
the risk of transmission which need to
be applied in any setting as those
lockdown measures begin to be relaxed
and more individuals can get together
maintain social distancing maintain hand
hygiene anything else James guarantee
workers who are basically saying this
has happened based on news even I wasn't
aware of that happening in New Zealand
but thanks for letting me know okay with
all public sector payer there's probably
a process for that as well which of
course we'll look into so thanks for
flagging that to me next
and finally Nathan Stanley from Hull
Daily Mail yes Thank You Chancellor and
good afternoon first part my question is
for professor powers and this week
localized data from the Department of
Health suggests that whole is still has
a high infection rate compared with
other parts of the country that perhaps
experience their peaks earlier on in
this pandemic does that mean that whole
is still susceptible to the virus as
these restrictions are listed across the
board and does it mean that people in
whole or more likely to see local
lockdowns imposed and then secondly to
the Chancellor whole has one of the
worst unemployment rates in the country
national holidays has gone bust this
week piano has said it's going to need
millions if it's going to survive this
crisis the caravan industry which is a
huge employer is really struggling so a
what is your message to people in hole
who are struggling during this crisis
and be you know the billions that you
sort of spoke about today I know Faison
from the BBC asked about the cost of
these schemes and there's sort of a
fraction of the 500 billion that was
thrown at banks that were responsible
for the 2008 crisis so can this Tory
government pledged to support the work
it's been protecting throughout after
the you know the months and years after
these schemes allows thanks and I think
if I go first I mean in terms of
specific support to whole businesses
like businesses up and down the country
many businesses in Hull would have
received holidays for their business
rates for the entire year cancellation
of business rates you talked about the
tourism industry there and caravan sir
that industry is particularly benefited
from a complete cancellation of its
business rates I think around probably
4,000 or so businesses in Hull would
have received a direct cash grant from
the government of ten or twenty five
thousand pounds if they're smaller or
businesses in the most affected
industries like hospitality and leisure
and of course they have access to all
the discounted loans and other things
that we've done I think a broader point
I would say just going back to what I
said earlier about you know kind of our
ambitions for net zero in the budget are
Outland a range of investments in our
region's up and down the country over
the next few years and you know a place
like home would be a beneficiary of that
we talked about carbon capture and
storage in an earlier in an earlier
answer and obviously the region around
hull has has seen amazing growth in
offshore wind production and carbon
capture and storage again is something
that could be a growth industry for a
place like Hull so I actually think you
know there are lots of opportunities
that this government will provide for
everyone living in Hull in the region to
participate in future growth and we've
got to standing behind workers I think
absolutely that's what this government
has done the the furlough scheme which
we've talked about today in particular
was perhaps the most strongest
expression of our values as a government
and our desire to stand behind those
working in this country who through no
fault of their own have faced a very
difficult time over the last few months
that's why we put this extraordinary
unprecedented intervention into place to
do exactly that to stand behind
Britain's workers and on local infection
rates Nathan I think you're quite right
there will be variation in the amount of
infection around different parts of the
country that's not unusual in an
infectious disease for instance
the flu season which we have every
winter we see variation in the amount of
flu in different parts of the country as
we go through the winter months
I think the second important point
though is that our estimate of the our
number across all regions in England a
and part of the UK is that it is below 1
which means that although there might be
some difference in underlying infection
rates the trend is downwards in all
parts of the country and then on the
point about whether there might need to
be local lock bans or restrictions I
think what we might find as we continue
to see a reduction in the amount of
infection is much more localized
outbreaks and we know that we can see
outbreaks seem in fact diseases and this
in one sense is no different in areas
where people are living closely together
so dormitories for example prisons might
be another that we've talked about and I
think that will require local
intervention local Public Health
intervention to manage those localized
outbreaks and in an earlier question we
talked about the joint by security
centre so the JBC and public health
England one of their key things will be
to ensure that we detect those outbreaks
localised outbreaks very early and the
appropriate interventions are made to
ensure that those the transmission
between individuals is broken and the
outbreaks dissipate before they can
become a wider problem within the
community brilliant Thank You Nathan I
think that brings us to the end of
today's press conference should thanks
professor powers for all your time and
thank you everyone at home for your time
and thank you as ever for going through
us together with this all of us together
through what is a very difficult time
but as we are seeing progressively week
by week things are improving we are able
to lift restrictions and bit by bit we
can try and get our lives back to a new
normal but it is a new normal that I
believe is filled with opportunity for
all of us we've talked today a little
bit about the economy and as I said
today a new national collective effort
begins we can start to reopen our
country and kickstart our economy get
our lives back to normal and it's
something that we will do all together
thank you very much have a good weekend
reishi sunic they're trying to bring a
little bit of hope and optimism to the
end of that daily briefing let's recap
now some of the announcements made by
the Chancellor at today's Downing Street
briefing well first of all the
Chancellor announced the daily death
figures a further 324 people have died
with curve at 19 in the past day and
that takes the overall official UK death
toll from the coronavirus to 38,000 161
Ritchie soon Act then went on to outline
changes to the furlough scheme
he said employees will continue to get
80 percent of their wages up to 2500
pounds for June and July
from August employers will have to pay
national insurance and pension
contributions and then 10 percent of pay
from September rising to 20 percent in
October and the Chancellor said he
intends to end the furlough scheme in
its current form in October where she
sue that also announced that workers
will be allowed to return to work
part-time from July still under the
furlough scheme and the self-employed
will be eligible for a final grant in
August covering 70 percent of the
applicants average monthly trading
profits
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch BBC News live in the app and get
the full story with BBC Dorko dot UK
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with BBC News